# Build JavaScript applications

* Artifact of a JavaScript application is e.g. azip or tar file
* But no special artifact type defined
* In JS we have package managers and NOT build tools
* For JS we have npm and yarn
* package.json file for dependencies
* Package manager install dependencies, but not used for transpiling JS code
* JavaScript libararies can be found in npm repository

## Command Line Tool - npm

* npm install:installs the dependencies
* npm start:start the application
* npm stop:stop the application
* npm test:run the tests
* npm publish:publish the artifact

## What does the zip/tar file include?
Application code, but NOT the dependencies, all the depadencies are in `package.json` file.

## Run JavaScript application on server:

1. Copy Zip/Tar file and package.json file to server
2. Unpack zip/tarInstall dependencies
3. Run the application


## Flexible JavaScript 

* If application consists of different programming languages:<br/>
Frontend: React.js (JS Library)<br/>
Backend: Java, Node.js, Python etc.<br/>
You can package frontend and backend code separately. Or in a common artifact file.

* If application consists of JavaScript in Frontend and Backend:<br/>
Frontend: React.js (JS Library)<br/>
Backend: Node.js (JS Library)<br/>
You can have a separate package.json file for frontend and backend. Or have a common package.json file


## Package Frontend Code
Frontend Code runs in the browser.Browser don't support latest JS versions or other fancy code decorations, like JSX in React.js. That's why frontend/React Code needs to be transpiled into browser compatible code. Code needs to be compressed/minified. There are separate tools for that: Build Tools/Bundler, for example <strong>webpack</strong>.

* Bundle frontend code with webpack
* Manage dependencies with npm or yarn
* Package everything into a WAR file
